DOCSP-37525 - Compression (#44)
mongodb/docs-pymongo: source/connect/network-compression.txt

.. _pymongo-network-compression:

========================
Compress Network Traffic
========================

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol

.. facet::
   :name: genre
   :values: reference
 
.. meta::
   :keywords: zlib, zstandard, snappy

> 

Reviewer: S: I think adding an "Overview" heading here makes the structure more clear
```suggestion
Overview
--------
```

of data passed over the network between MongoDB and your application.

{+driver-short+} supports the following compression algorithms.

1. `Snappy <https://google.github.io/snappy/>`__: Available in MongoDB 3.6 and later. This
   option requires the `python-snappy <https://pypi.org/project/python-snappy/>`__ package.

2. `Zlib <https://zlib.net/>`__: Available in MongoDB 3.6 and later. This option requires
   the zlib module, included in the standard library in Python v1.5 and later.

3. `Zstandard <https://github.com/facebook/zstd/>`__: Available in MongoDB 4.2 and later.
   This option requires the `zstandard <https://pypi.org/project/zstandard/>`__ package.

If you don't specify a compression algorithm, {+driver-short+} doesn't compress your
network traffic. If you specify multiple compression algorithms, the driver selects the
first one in the list supported by your MongoDB instance.

.. _pymongo-enable-compression:

Specify Compression Algorithms
------------------------------

To enable compression for the connection to your MongoDB instance,
specify the algorithms you want to use in one of the following ways: 

> You can do this in two ways: by passing an argument to the
> ``MongoClient`` constructor or through a parameter in your connection string.

Reviewer: I: since the previous sentence already introduces these two options, I'd delete the "you can do this in two ways:" and format the options as a list
```suggestion
- Pass the algorithm as an argument to the ``MongoClient`` constructor
- Specify the algorithm in your connection string
```

Author: whoops; some leftover pasted text snuck in there. thanks for catching

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: MongoClient
      :tabid: mongoclient

      .. code-block:: python
         :emphasize-lines: 2

         client = pymongo.MongoClient("mongodb://<username>:<password>@<hostname@:<port>",
                                      compressors="snappy,zstandard,zlib")

   .. tab:: Connection String
      :tabid: connectionstring

      .. code-block:: python
         :emphasize-lines: 2

         uri = ("mongodb://<username>:<password>@<hostname>:<port>/?"
                "compressors=snappy,zstandard,zlib")
         client = pymongo.MongoClient(uri)

> 

Reviewer: S: not necessary, but could be helpful to separate this zlib compression level info into its own subsection
```suggestion
Set the zlib Compression Level
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
```

If you specify ``zlib`` as one of your compression algorithms, you can also use the
``zlibCompressionLevel`` option to specify a compression level. This option accepts
an integer value between ``-1`` and ``9``:

- **-1:** (Default). zlib uses its default compression level (usually ``6``).
- **0:** No compression.
- **1:** Fastest speed but lowest compression.

> - **9:** Best compression but slowest speed.

Author: I'm not attached to this list style

Reviewer: I think it's fine; you could also use a table with two columns

Author: i went to a working group yesterday and one of the things we talked about was the overuse of tables. probably why i went with a list here
